#Structure of the FTP site

This file provides an overview of the structure of the FTP site.

###Top level of the site

At the top level of the site, ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/, there are a number of files and directories.

Files present in ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/:
 - README files: These provide information on a variety of topics related to this FTP site and the data it contains.
 - CHANGELOG file: This file records alterations made to this FTP site.
 - current.tree file: This file lists all directories and files currently present on this FTP site.
 
Directories present in ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/:
- changelog_details
- data
- data_collections
- historical_data
- phase1
- phase3
- pilot_data
- release
- technical

These directories and described in the next section of this file.

###Directories

####changelog_details

This directory contains a series of files detailing the changes made to the FTP site over time.

####data

The data directory formerly housed data generated during the 1000 Genomes Project. The data that was previously located here has been integrated into data_collections and is present under ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/data_collections/1000_genomes_project/data. Further information on this move can be found in ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/data/README_data_has_moved.md.

####data_collections

The data_collections directory contains directories for various collections of data, typically generated by different projects. Among the data collections is the **1000 Genomes Project** data.

For each collection of data, within the directory for that collection, README and index files provide information on the collection. Under each collection directory, there is a data directory, under which files are organised by population and then sample. Further information can be found in ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/data_collections/README_data_collections.md.

####historical_data

This directory was created during a rearrangement of the FTP site in September 2015. It houses README and index files that were formerly present at the toplevel of this site, including dedicated index directories. Further information is available in ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/historical_data/README_historical_data.md.

####phase1

This directory contains data that supports the publications associated with phase 1 of the 1000 Genomes Project.

####phase3

This directory contains data that supports the publications associated with phase 3 of the 1000 Genomes Project.

####pilot_data

This directory contains data that supports the publications associated with the pilot phase of the 1000 Genomes Project.

####release

The release directory contains dated directories which contain analysis results sets plus README files explaining how those data sets were produced.

Originally, the date in release subdirectory names was the date on which the given release was made. Thereafter, the release subdirectory dates were based on the date in the name of the corresponding YYYYMMDD.sequence.index file. In future, the date in the directory name will be chosen in a manner appropriate to the data and the nature of the release.

Examples of release subdirectories are: 
- ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/release/2008_12/
- ftp://ftp-trace.ncbi.nih.gov/1000genomes/release/2008_12/

In cases where release directories are named based on the date of the YYYYMMDD.sequence.index, the SNP calls, indel calls, etc. in these directories are based on alignments produced from data listed in the  YYYYMMDD.sequence.index file.

For example, the directory
ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/release/20100804/
contains the release versions of SNP and indel calls based on the 
ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/historical_data/former_toplevel/sequence_indices/20100804.sequence.index
file.

####technical

The technical directory contains subdirectories for other data sets such as simulations, files for
method development, interm data sets, reference genomes, etc..

An example of data stored under technical is ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/technical/simulations/.

***WARNING: ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/technical/working/***

The working directory under technical contains data that has experimental (non-public release) status
and is suitable for internal project use only. Please use with ***caution***. 

###Further information

Should you require further assistance in navigating the FTP site, please contact info@1000genomes.org.
