#Data has moved

Due to a rearrangement of the FTP site, to accomodate new data sets, the contents of ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/data have been moved. This file describes where to find the data that was previously located under this directory.

###Where are the sample directories and their contents?

The sample directories that were in ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/data can now be found under ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/data_collections/1000_genomes_project/data. Under that directory, there is now an additional level of organisation by population. Information on populations can be found in ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/README_populations.md. As an example, the directory ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/data/NA19150 now has the equivalent directory ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/data_collections/1000_genomes_project/data/YRI/NA19150. Please note that the contents of these directories may not be identical as current analysis files, such as alignments, change over time.

### Why have things been moved to data_collections?

Following the conclusion of the 1000 Genomes Project, the International Genome Sample Resource (IGSR) was set up to maintain access to 1000 Genomes Project data. In addition, the IGSR acts as an access point to additional data sets, beyond the data generated by the original project. To reflect the fact that the site now supports data from multiple projects, data is now being stored in collections, which can be found under ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/data_collections.

### How do I find where my file has gone

We keep a tree file which lists all the files currently on the FTP site. It is called current.tree ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/current.tree We also keep complete changelogs which list all the changes that have been made to the ftp site each day, these files can be found in ftp://ftp.1000genomes.ebi.ac.uk/vol1/ftp/changelog_details/
If you have a file name, you should be able to search the current.tree file for the file and find its new location. If you don't have the file name but can remember what the file contained, please email info@1000genomes.org to ask for help.
